Let's take a look at the root bone here I'll press shift right click and choose root and let's see what's
going on here so it looks like there is some influence bleeding out onto the legs if we choose the upper
leg l we can see some problems here we don't want the leg to be moving the hips.
Looks like the same thing is going on over here so we've got some work to do first of all let's begin
with the root bone for this when I selected here it selects that Vertex group over in the list over
here.
So let's then tab into edit mode and hover over the legs and choose these.
And then let's click remove.
Let's see how that worked shift.
Right click route Yeah I think that'll be good.
Now let's select the upper leg bone and for this one we want to get rid of the hips.
We want to remove all the vertices for the hips.
So let's tab into edit mode I will press L to select that and then let's click remove and we go let's
try that yep that worked there.
Let's select this one now and same thing needs to happen here.
Need to tab and edit mode hover over that and press the L key and click remove.
Now let's see how we're doing here.
OK that looks good.
That looks good.
And shift right click.
That looks OK there.
Now I see a problem here in that we're not going to have anything influencing these hips I've taken
away the hips For the torso and the legs.
I think the root bone needs to be what controls the hips.
So what we can do is tab and edit mode select all of the points for the hips and then we can come over
here and click a sign we can actually assign the weights at 100 percent and assign these vertices to
the root bone vertex group so I'll click assign There we go.
Now we tab back in select the route bone.
There we go.
Now we've got the hips and that crotch area being influenced by the root bone.
I think that's what we want.
I think that'll work pretty well.
Well OK let's come up here and take a look at the arms.
If we shift right click this we can choose up arm L and frankly I think that looks pretty good.
We've got full influence up here and it falling off to here.
That looks pretty good.
However I don't know that we need influence all the way down to here from that bone.
So what we could do for that is go to our active tool tab here go to subtract subtract one hundred percent
and then maybe I'll hit the f key and expand the brush a bit and then I'll also come up here and turn
off that face election mode and actually with that turned off.
Yeah.
Here we go.
It doesn't look as bad with that turned off.
And we go just remove that a bit.
Let's press shift right click and choose the lower arm and that doesn't look too bad except it's bleeding
over here into the wrist.
Let's also select the hand bone here and take a look at that.
So I think what we need to do here is one increase the influence of the hand on the wrist polygons here
but also I think we need to remove the influence here on the wrist from the lower arm bone.
I want to be able to rotate the hand in the wrist without any influence from the lower arm.
Well let's do is tab into edit mode.
Let's go to face mode and I want to press Alt and click on an edge between two of the faces and select
that whole face loop there and then I'll come over here to the Object data panel and with the lower
arm selected I'll just click remove.
Here we go.
So free tab back into weight paint mode.
Select this now the influence on the wrist is completely gone from the lower arm.
Now let's select this the hand and let's tab back into edit mode and let's assign 100 percent to those
vertices.
There we go.
Select that again and there we are.
Okay that's good.
Now for these bones I think I think these are probably gonna be just fine.
I'm not gonna really be using these a whole lot if ever I think these are probably just fine.
And we go.
All right.
So I need to go through and do this same thing.
On the right arm.
So let's do that quickly let's select the lower arm.
There it is.
Let's tap into edit mode select these bases here and remove and then will select that hand tab into
edit mode and assign.
There we go.
OK so now we have that taken care of.
What about the head.
Well if we choose the neck that's what we have right there.
And if we choose the head that's what we have right there.
However I think all we're really going to need is to use the neck to move the head because the head's
never gonna really bend at the neck or the chin or anywhere else other than right down here at the connection
of the torso.
But I went ahead and created a neck and a head bone because in unity it's going to be looking for that
but just because it's going to be looking for that doesn't mean we have to use it necessarily.
So what I want to do is just control the head from the neck bone just the whole thing from the neck
bone and then the head bone will just be there and we'll never really use it.
So to do that I'm just going to tap back into edit mode at the El key for the head and the hair and
with the neck vertex group selected I'll click a sign and we go.
So now if we choose the neck there we have it the head still has influence but it doesn't really matter
because we're never going to use it anyway.
All right.
So now what let's do is go back to object mode and then let's select the rig and let's give it a try.
Here I'm going to select the neck.
Go to the rotate tool and I'm just going to click and drag in here in this sphere and you can see that's
the way it's going to move there.
And I think that's OK I'll press ult are to remove the rotation there.
Let's select this bone and move this around and I think that'll work.
OK.
I'm never gonna be moving it more than about like this or like this.
Just to give a little bit of squash and stretch when he hits the ground maybe ult ah let's select this
one do the same thing with this.
Yeah.
This is going to once again rotate right there between the hip and the torso and that's fine.
Hold are.
Let's take a look at the legs here or click and drag this one in the x axis and you can see it's just
moving the leg and that's good.
And then if we take this one here this will just be a little bit of a bend here.
Now look at what's happening here.
If I click and drag this can you see how it's moving here.
You don't really want this bone to be moving this part of the leg.
So let's quickly try and fix that.
I'll go back to object mode select the character weight paint mode.
Let's shift right click and select the lower leg and you can see where the influence is up here.
You see that.
So what we can do is go to our active tool go to subtract.
And I will just try and paint some of this out like this and we go we don't need all of that up in here
we go we should do the same thing over here.
We don't need all of this either.
All right.
So that's our process.
We need to go through and figure out where we need to adjust the weights.
There may be more we need to do in the foot area but I'm going to wait until we set up our reverse foot
roll rig to then test the foot a little bit more precisely to see what we need in terms of the weight
painting.
So we'll begin that coming up next.